# Machine-Learning-From-Scratch-with-Python

I'm very interested in machine learning, and I wanted to test my Python skills (especially with numpy) as well as my understanding of multiple different algorithms by coding them from scratch, i.e. without using a library like Scikit-Learn or PyTorch. In the folder titled `neural_network_from_scratch` you can find the python files for multiple different optimizers, including momentum-based stochastic gradient descent, Nesterov's accelerated gradient descent, RMSprop, and Adam, as well as multiple activation functions, including the sigmoid function and the softmax function, and finally files for training the neural network and implementing it. The neural network is tested on classifying the images in the MNIST dataset.

I also have files for multiple different clustering algorithms which can be applied in an unsupervised learning context, including K-means, spectral clustering, and Gaussian mixture modeling. I did use sklearn in the implementation of spectral clustering so I wouldn't have to code K-means again, but there is an implementation of K-means from scratch as well. Each of these clustering algorithms are employed on toy datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of each in different situations.

There are a few miscellaneous files: there is a file for logistic regression from scratch, with multiple different methods of gradient descent, which is used to classify the Iris dataset, and I have files for reinforcement learning employed to analyze the classic gambler's dilemma problem, as well as a file using Keras to implement a convolutional neural network, again trained on the MNIST dataset.

Finally, I've included the code and a PDF for the final project I completed with my group members for the class Math 156: Machine Learning at UCLA. We trained a reinforcement learning agent using the Q-learning algorithm to build convolutional neural network architectures, and the agent learned the optimal network topology over many iterations of the algorithm. We made use of the Keras library to aid in the construction and training of the networks suggested by the agent, but all other work was done from scratch using Python.
